I'm not sure there's a religious
observance in the church that more
directly collides with deeply-held
assumed values of secularism than Ash
Wednesday it was yesterday in case you
missed it or in case you were wondering
why so many random people were walking
around with smudge crosses on their head
the imposition of the ashes that it's
called as a tradition that goes back
about ten centuries it marks the
beginning of the season of Lent on the
church calendar which is kind of the
counterpart to Advent just as Adventists
to repair God's people to celebrate the
coming of Christ at Christmas and to
celebrate the Christmas season the
season of Lent is designed to help God's
people prepare to observe Holy Week and
especially Easter Sunday as the priest
or pastor smudges the ashes across the
forehead he tells the worshiper you are
from dust and to dust you shall return a
quote from God in Genesis chapter 3 now
whether recognizing the church calendar
as part of your tradition or not what
ash wednesday symbolizes is something
that runs in direct conflict with the
values that are deeply held by secular
culture first it reminds us that we're
sinful that we have moral guilt before
God and that's important in a culture
that wants to give us a universal
get-out-of-jail-free card in the name of
freedom which is really nothing more
than a free-for-all we're told that all
indulgence is a good thing that sexual
variety and sexual intensity is a good
replacement for sexual wholeness and
sexual integrity and sexual intimacy
we're told that anything we want to do
must be okay merely on the condition
that we want to do it and yet that's not
the way reality works the moral law that
God put into the universe as created is
written on the universe and is written
on our hearts and we have failed that
moral law and we need to know that
second God's indictment on the human
condition you are dust and to dust you
shall return is a important reminder of
our mortality ponce de Leon's quest for
the Fountain of Youth hasn't gone away
it just now the solution isn't water its
genetic engineering its gender selective
abortion and all kinds of other eugenic
strategies that go along
with our technical arrogance we think
the world is one in which we control it
and that will be able to defeat all
problems including death it's just a
matter of time but you know what death
remains death remains the universal
problem of the human condition we all
die and when we die what happens we will
encounter the God who created the world
we need to know that and not be diluted
by what writer Craig gay called in his
book the way of the modern world
practical atheism a lot of us who
believe in God aren't atheist but were
practical atheists we live as if God is
largely irrelevant for most of life and
a reminder of our mortality counters
that in our lives finally we need to be
reminded that our greatest needs are not
physical our greatest needs our
spiritual God said your dust and to dust
you shall return jesus said fear not
those who can kill the body fear those
who after they kill the body can throw
the soul into hell its traditional
during Lent to give up something usually
a physical indulgence a favorite food a
favorite drink or some sort of activity
but fully celebrating lint is not just
giving up some physical thing it's
replacing it with a spiritual discipline
of prayer of bible reading of study of
meditation of community of gathering
together and praying together and i
challenge you if you're going to take
one seriously this year don't just give
something up but replace it with our
greatest need and that is the need to
know god and to walk with him through
the world for re-engage I'm John
Stonestreet
you